[RVW] Update Decoding Userguide (using Decoder) (#2476)
nilearn/nilearn: doc/decoding/decoding_intro.rst

The Haxby 2001 experiment
-------------------------

In the Haxby experiment, subjects were presented visual stimuli from
different categories. We are going to predict which category the subject

> is seeing from the fMRI activity recorded in masks of the ventral stream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is seeing from the fMRI activity recorded in regions of the ventral visual system.
```

   made of many blocks of continuous stimulation. Most cognitive
   experiments have a more complex temporal structure with rich sequences
   of events.
   (:ref:`more on data input <loading_data>`).

   The standard approach to decoding consists in fitting a first-level
   :ref:`general linear model (or GLM) <glm_intro>` to retrieve one response
   map (a beta map) per trial as shown in
   :ref:`sphx_glr_auto_examples_02_decoding_plot_haxby_glm_decoding.py`.
   This is sometimes known as "beta-series regressions" (see Mumford et al,
   *Deconvolving bold activation in event-related designs for multivoxel
   pattern classification analyses*, NeuroImage 2012). These maps can
   then be input to the decoder as below, predicting the conditions
   associated to trial.

   For simplicity, we will work on the raw time-series of the data.

>    However, **it is strongly recommended that you fit a first level to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   However, **it is strongly recommended that you fit a first-level model to
```

-----------------

To perform decoding, we need a model that can learn some relations
between **X** (the imaging data) and **y** the condition label. As a default,
Nilearn uses `Support Vector Classifier
<http://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/svm.html>`_ (or SVC) with a
linear kernel. This is a simple yet performant choice that works in a wide
variety of problems.

.. seealso::
  the `scikit-learn documentation on SVMs
  <http://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/svm.html>`_

Decoding made easy
-------------------

Nilearn makes it easy to train a model with a principled pipeline using the
:class:`nilearn.decoding.Decoder` object. Using the mask we defined before
and an SVC estimator as we already introduced, we can create a pipeline in
two lines. The additional `standardize`=True argument adds a normalization
of images signal to a zero mean and unit variance, which will improve
performance of most estimators.

    >>> from nilearn.decoding import Decoder # doctest: +SKIP
    >>> decoder = Decoder(estimator='svc', mask=mask_filename) # doctest: +SKIP

Then we can fit it on the images and the conditions we chose before.

    >>> decoder.fit(fmri_niimgs, conditions) # doctest: +SKIP

> 

Reviewer: According to the above comment, shouldn't we replace that with a reference to an example ?

Author: I went with leaving two or three really basic lines that don't risk to be deprecated in the coming years for pedagogy. But really not much

* **Retrieving the data**: In the tutorial, we load the data using nilearn
  data downloading function, :func:`nilearn.datasets.fetch_haxby`.
  However, all this function does is to download the data and return
  paths to the files downloaded on the disk. To input your own data to
  nilearn, you can pass in the path to your own files
  (:ref:`more on data input <loading_data>`).

    >>> from nilearn import datasets  # doctest: +SKIP
    >>> haxby_dataset = datasets.fetch_haxby()  # doctest: +SKIP

> * **Masking fMRI data**: To perform the analysis some voxels only, we will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Masking fMRI data**: To perform the analysis on some voxels only, we will
```

  (here `mask_vt` a mask of the ventral temporal cortex that comes with data).

    >>> mask_filename = haxby_dataset.mask_vt[0]  # doctest: +SKIP

* **Loading the behavioral labels**: Behavioral information is often stored
  in a text file such as a CSV, and must be load with
  **numpy.recfromcsv** or `pandas <http://pandas.pydata.org/>`_

    >>> import pandas as pd  # doctest: +SKIP
    >>> behavioral = pd.read_csv(haxby_dataset.session_target[0], delimiter=' ')  # doctest: +SKIP

* **Sample mask**: Masking some of the time points
  may be useful to
  restrict to a specific pair of conditions (*eg* cats versus faces).

    >>> conditions = behavioral['labels']  # doctest: +SKIP
    >>> condition_mask = conditions.isin(['face', 'cat'])  # doctest: +SKIP
    >>> fmri_niimgs = index_img(fmri_filename, condition_mask)  # doctest: +SKIP
    >>> conditions = conditions[condition_mask]  # doctest: +SKIP
    >>> # Convert to numpy array
    >>> conditions = conditions.values  # doctest: +SKIP

.. seealso::
  * :ref:`masking`
    To better control this process of spatial masking and add additional signal
    processing steps (smoothing, filtering, standardizing...), we could

>     explicitely define a masker :  :class:`nilearn.input_data.NiftiMasker`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    explicitly define a masker :  :class:`nilearn.input_data.NiftiMasker`.
```

>     This object extracts voxels belonging to a given spatial mask and convert

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This object extracts voxels belonging to a given spatial mask and converts
```

    (see :ref:`mask_4d_2_3d` for a discussion on using

.. note::
  Seemingly minor data preparation can matter a lot on the final score,
  for instance standardizing the data.

Performing a simple decoding analysis
=======================================

A few definitions
---------------------

When doing predictive analysis you train an estimator to predict a variable of
interest to you. Or in other words to predict a condition label **y** given a
set **X** of imaging data.

This is always done in at least two steps:
  - first a `fit` during which we "learn" the parameters of the model that make
  good predictions. This is done on some "training data" or "training set".
  - then a `predict` step where the "fitted" model is used to make prediction
  on new data. Here, we just have to give the new set of images (as the target
  should be unknown). These are called "test data" or "test set".

All objects used to make prediction in Nilearn will at least have functions for
these steps : a `fit` function and a `predict` function.

.. warning::

    **Do not predict on data used by the fit: this would yield misleadingly
    optimistic scores.**

A first estimator
-----------------

> To perform decoding, we need a model that will be able to learn some relations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To perform decoding, we need a model that can learn some relations
```

between **X** (the imaging data) and **y** the condition label. As a default,
Nilearn uses `Support Vector Classifier
<http://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/svm.html>`_ (or SVC) with a
linear kernel. This is a simple yet performant choice that works in a wide
variety of problems.

.. seealso::
  the `scikit-learn documentation on SVMs
  <http://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/svm.html>`_

Decoding made easy
-------------------

Nilearn makes it easy to train a model with a principled pipeline using the
:class:`nilearn.decoding.Decoder` object. Using the mask we defined before
and an SVC estimator as we already introduced, we can create a pipeline in
two lines. The additional `standardize`=True argument adds a normalization

> of images signal to a 0 mean and 1 variance which will improve performance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of images signal to zero mean and unit variance, which will improve performance
```

of most estimators.

    >>> from nilearn.decoding import Decoder # doctest: +SKIP
    >>> decoder = Decoder(estimator='svc', mask=mask_filename) # doctest: +SKIP

Then we can fit it on the images and the conditions we chose before.

    >>> decoder.fit(fmri_niimgs, conditions) # doctest: +SKIP

This decoder can now be used to predict conditions for new images !

> Be careful though, as we warned you, predicting images that were used to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be careful though, as we warned you, predicting on images that were used to
```

`fit` your model should never be done.

Measuring prediction performance
--------------------------------

> One of the most common interest of decoding is to measure how well we can learn

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the most common interests of decoding is to measure how well we can learn
```

*cross-validation* to split the data into different sets, we can then `fit` our
estimator on some set and measure an unbiased error on another set.

The easiest way to do cross-validation is the `K-Fold strategy
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-validation_(statistics)#k-fold_cross-validation>`_.
If you do 5-fold cross-validation manually, you split your data in 5 folds,
use 4 folds to `fit` your estimator, and 1 to `predict` and measure the errors
made by your estimators. You repeat this for every combination of folds, and get
5 prediction "scores", one for each fold.

During the `fit`, :class:`nilearn.decoding.Decoder` object implicitely used a
cross-validation: Stratified K-fold by default. You can easily inspect
the prediction "score" it got in each fold.

    >>> print(decoder.cv_scores_) # doctest: +SKIP

Choosing a good cross-validation strategy
.........................................

There are many cross-validation strategies possible, including K-Fold or
leave-one-out. When choosing a strategy, keep in mind that the test set should
be as little correlated as possible with the train set and have enough samples

> to enable a good measure the prediction error (10 to 20% of the data as a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to enable a good measure the prediction error (at least 10 to 20% of the data as a
```

* In any case leaving only one image as test set(leave-one-out) is often
  the worst option (see Varoquaux et al, *Assessing and tuning brain decoders:
  cross-validation, caveats, and guidelines*, Neuroimage 2017).

To improve our first pipeline for the Haxby example, we can leave one entire
session out. To do this, we can pass a `LeaveOneGroupOut` cross-validation
object from scikit-learn to our `Decoder`. Fitting it with the information of
groups=`session_labels` will use one session as test set.

    >>> session_label = behavioral['chunks'][condition_mask] # doctest: +SKIP
    >>> from sklearn.model_selection import LeaveOneGroupOut # doctest: +SKIP
    >>> cv = LeaveOneGroupOut() # doctest: +SKIP
    >>> decoder = Decoder(estimator='svc', mask=mask_filename,
                      standardize=True,cv=cv) # doctest: +SKIP
    >>> decoder.fit(fmri_niimgs, conditions, groups=session_label) # doctest: +SKIP

.. note::
  Full code example can be found at :
  :ref:`sphx_glr_auto_examples_plot_decoding_tutorial.py`

Choice of the prediction accuracy measure
.........................................

Once you have a prediction about new data and its real label (the "ground truth")

> there are different ways to measure a "score" that summarize its performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
there are different ways to measure a "score" that summarizes its performance.
```

   :align: left

Visualizing the decoder's weights
---------------------------------

When it's fitted, the :class:`nilearn.decoding.Decoder` object retains the coefficients of best models for

> each class in decoder.coef_. To plot the map of weights that are discriminative

Reviewer: ```suggestion
each class in decoder.coef_. To plot the weight maps that are discriminative
```

   :scale: 65

.. seealso::
  * :ref:`plotting`

.. topic:: **Final script**

    The complete script to do an SVM-Anova analysis can be found as
    :ref:`an example <sphx_glr_auto_examples_02_decoding_plot_haxby_anova_svm.py>`.

.. seealso::
  * :ref:`frem`
  * :ref:`space_net`

>   * :ref:`searchlight`

Reviewer 2: I think that it would be useful to keep a link to the scikit-learn docs, no?
